So the processing of the knitr document is
here, is, happens in a certain way.
First the RMarkdown document is processed
and creates
a markdown document, then the markdown
document is converted
to HTML, and then the HTML file is what
you view in the, in the Fisa final
product.
Generally speaking, you do not want to
edit
or mess with any of those secondary
documents.
You don't want to edit the markdown
document or
the HTML document because those are
automatically generated.
If you edit them, and then you reprocess
the doc, the original document, all
of your changes will be overridden in the
HTML file or in the Markdown file.
So only edit the RMarkdown file that's
been,
that contains the original text and the
original Rcode.
So here's another example, I've got my
first knitr document and I have
my name there as the author, and I've
started a section called the introduction,
and say here's some text, here's a code
chunk, and I, and I
named the code chunk simulation, and
notice
I added this option echo equals false.
And so that means, that indicates the
knitr that I don't want the code for this
code chunk to be echoed in the output
document, I just want the result to show.
So here I got my level 1 heading indicated
by the
single hash, the level 2 heading in,
indicated by the two hashes.
I say don't echo the code.
So now this is the output document, again,
you could see that
it looks like the original document that I
had in the previous example.
But I don't see the code, I'd only see the
output, which is the mean.
You could also hide the results, too, if
you wanted too.
In this case it doesn't make too much
sense, but you could
do it by adding the results, excuse me,
the results equals hide option.
And then when you see the output document,
you see that all
the text is there but there's no code, and
there's no results.
One of the nice things about knitr
document
is that you can write sentences and text.
And if you need to fill in a number or a
statistic or some sort
of computation in the middle of sentence
you
can just add that directly into a
sentence.
So for example here I have a code chunk
which computes the time
and using the Sys.time() function and then
I also generate a random number, okay?
And so, now I can write a sentence.
So that code check, I don't echo the
codes, I
don't want people to see that code, what I
want people
to see is the sentence immediately
afterwards, says the current
time is, and then I'll just plug in the
current time.
And then the next sentence is my favorite
random number
is, and then I'll just plug in a random
number.
So here, you see the output is, the
current time
is Wednesday September 4th and there's the
time and 2013.
And you can see my favorite random number
is 1.1829.
So that's how you can plug in computed
variables,
or computed results in the middle, inline
with text.
Another important aspect of any report
probably is going to be some graphics.
So you want to make plots of data or
of, or maybe, or, or any sort of
visualization.
So you can easily add this into an inner
document.
So here I've simulated some data.
And then in, in the first arc, code chunk
I simulated some data.
And in the second code chunk, I make a
plot.
So I use the par function to set the,
kind of, the canvas with the margins.
And the las option, then I call plot to
make the, make the to generate the plot.
And you notice I added an option here
which adjusts the figurehead.
And so actually fig.height equals four
which makes
a little bit of squished more than usual.
So it would a be a rectangular type of
plot rather than a square plot.
And so what knitr produces is a little bit
interesting.
It creates an HTML file through the
processing.
So you can see that if you, if you're
familiar HTML you can see this is basic
HTML.
I've cut off a lot of stuff from the top,
so I've just put the body in.
And this is basic HTML.
I, you can see that down here at the
bottom, you'll see there's an image tag.
But rather than point to an actual file
that's the image,
it actually embeds the entire image into
these HTML files itself.
So you can see this is a Base64 encoded,
image and so actually this HTML file
stands alone, it
doesn't, it doesn't depend on an external
image files,
which is not necessarily the most
efficient format but it's
actually quit useful because you can take
this HTML
file, give it to someone else, and they
don't have
to worry about whether they have,
everything's, about whether
they have these other files or not because
everything's embedded.
So here's the result as you can see I
echoed the Rcode I had the result of the
plot.
And you see it's kind of this rectangular
shape, and that's my scatter plot.
So another handy thing you can do in a
knitr document is make a table.
And often you want to make a table that
summarizes
the result of some calculation, like a
regression model.
So, here I, I have a code chunk with load,
with load some data.
And I fiddled in your regression model to
it.
Here I'm modelling ozone concentrations,
as a
function of wind, temperature, and solar
radiation.
And I want to summarize the output from
this
Linear Regression model in a, kind of,
pretty format.
So, not just your standard, kind of, auto
model format.
So I'm going to use the xtable package,
which is available on Crane.
You have to install it separately, it
doesn't come with R.
And I'm going to use the xtable function
to summarize the fit.
And I'm going to use, and I'll print it to
HTML.
And you can see that in the resulting
knitr, sorry, HTML output, after I
process it with knitr, I get the code that
I ran for the regression model.
And I get the, it echoes the code, but at
the very bottom here I can see that
I got a table of regression coefficient,
standard errors,
T values and P values, which is formatted
in HTML.
And, so it, it'll be, kind of in
a prettier format, rather than standard
text mode.
So sometimes, you want to set options for
the entire document.
So, these are called Global options.
And, you want these options to apply to
every single code chunk.
So, maybe if you never want to echo the
code, for
example, you want every code chuck to say,
eco equals fall.
So it can be a bit of a pain to have to
specify every
single code chunk, so you might want to
set a global option for something like
that.
And so, the way you can do that is you can
create
a separate code chunk in the, in the very
beginning of the document.
Here I've called it set options.
And you can modify, there's a special
object called opts
underscore chunk, which has a function
built into it called set.
And if you call that set function, you can
set the global option.
So here I set echo equals to false and
I've set the results equal to hide.
So by default, every code chunk in this
document will not echo
the result the, sorry, not echo the code
and will hide the results.
So here I've got some code chunks here, I
simulate some data, I make a plot.
But when I'm, when you see, when I make
the,
when I see the HTML output I, I I'm sorry.
Let me go back.
I see in the first of all in the first
code chunk I override
the default for the, for the echo so I
want to echo equals true.
And then for the second, code chunk, I
don't want to echo the plotting code.
And so I, I let the default occur.
So here I, the, the code that generates
the data is
echoed but the code that creates the plot
is not echoed.
So, some of the common options that are,
that
are good to remember, of course you can
always go
back to the documentation on the knitr
website, so
the results can be specified as either
hide or asis.
Asis means don't, don't postprocess the
results, just show the,
kind of the, the raw results from whatever
the output is.
Echo can be true or false.
So if you want to echo the code or not.
For figures usually you might want to
modify the height and the width to be
a specific type of size of fig.height and
fig.width are common options to set there.
So one special case is when you have a
code
chunk and the computation takes a really
long time to run.
Now every time you process the knitr
document to look
at the HTML output, you're going to have
to run this computation.
So one strategy to avoid having to sit
around and wait a long time, is to
cache the computation and so caching
computations can
be very useful for kind of complex code
chunks.
And so the idea is that for each
code chunk, there's a special option
called cache.
You can set cache equal to TRUE and what
will happen is that for that
code chunk, the first time you process the
document, it will have to run the code.
But in order to figure out what the output
is.
But then what it will do is it will store
that output on
the disk and so that the next time you
process the document, as
long as nothing has changed, it will load
the results from the disk,
which is typically a lot faster than
having to redo all the computation scans.
So this, this will save you a lot of time
if you're doing this over and over again.
So if the data or the code or something
changes,
then you will, you will have to rerun the
code again.
There's really no getting around that.
And so the caching will, will kind of
update to represent the new results.
If you're, if one code chunk depends on
another code chunk that
was previous to it, this dependency is not
explicitly tracked by default.
And so you'll have to make sure that if a
previous code chunk has a dramatic change
to it and the
further and the downstream code chunk
depends on it, then you
rerun everything so that the cache doesn't
get mixed into it.
Chunks with significant side effects may
not be cacheable.
So if a, if the code in a chunk has some
effect that
kind of outside the document then it may
not be possible to cache that.
So just to summarize, I talk about knitr
in this
lecture, which is a useful tool for doing
literate statistical programming.
It can be used, that will allow you to put
text, code, and data and output all into
one document.
It uses a mark down formatting language,
which
is kind of very simple and easy to learn.
And, and it, and it creates HTML documents
that you can view in any web browser.
So I think it's a powerful tool for
integrating text code.
I mentioned, as I mentioned before,
there's pros and cons.
It's not a perfect tool.
But it may be useful to learn and it's for
generating [UNKNOWN] reports.